# Part I - (Prosper Loan Data)
## by (Ijeoma Mariam Okocha - mariokocha@gmail.com)


## Dataset Prosper Loan Data

> There are 113937 entries of loan data and 81 columns where 61 columns are numerical, 3 boolean and the rest strings (although there are date-type represented as objects) We would just select a few columns to work with The current status of the loan: Cancelled, Chargedoff, Completed, Current, Defaulted, FinalPaymentInProgress, PastDue. The PastDue status will be accompanied by a delinquency bucket.The Prosper Rating assigned at the time the listing was created: 0 - N/A, 1 - HR, 2 - E, 3 - D, 4 - C, 5 - B, 6 - A, 7 - AA. Applicable for loans originated after July 2009.The Prosper Rating assigned at the time the listing was created between AA - HR. Applicable for loans originated after July 2009.The category of the listing that the borrower selected when posting their listing: 0 - Not Available, 1 - Debt Consolidation, 2 - Home Improvement, 3 - Business, 4 - Personal Loan, 5 - Student Use, 6 - Auto, 7- Other, 8 - Baby&Adoption, 9 - Boat, 10 - Cosmetic Procedure, 11 - Engagement Ring, 12 - Green Loans, 13 - Household Expenses, 14 - Large Purchases, 15 - Medical/Dental, 16 - Motorcycle, 17 - RV, 18 - Taxes, 19 - Vacation, 20 - Wedding Loans.Closed date is applicable for Cancelled, Completed, Chargedoff and Defaulted loan statuses. A custom risk score built using historical Prosper data. The score ranges from 1-10, with 10 being the best, or lowest risk score. Applicable for loans originated after July 2009.
> We used a few variables in the data set.
### What is/are the main feature(s) of interest in your dataset?

There are three main features i looked at and they are;
a. Estimated Returns -- The estimated return assigned to the listing at the time it was created. Estimated return is the difference between the Estimated Effective Yield and the Estimated Loss Rate. Applicable for loans originated after July 2009.
b. BorrowerAPR -- The Borrower's cost rate for this loan. 
c. CurrentDelinquencies -- Number of accounts delinquent at the time the credit profile was pulled.

## Summary of Findings
 Borrower Annual Percentage Rate (%) has an unusual point around 0.36% as it has the highest count even when its quite a high percentage for cost of borrowing.
The CurrentDeliquencies seem to be a category of Delinquencies which is sorted out delibrately by the company.
When investigating the Estimated Returns alot of null values were removes which also removed null values from the Estimated Yeild and Estimate loss also the Properscore had null data.Also outliers were being removed from the data to focus more on the trend of the loans.
A strong correlation between the Borrower rate,EstimatedReturn, and LenderYeild, these shows to affect each other, as the BorrowRate seem to have the strongest correlation with the LenderYield,This tells that the BorrowerRate is depended on the LenderYeild. The BorrowerAPR is the LenderYeild plus the service Charges of Prosperloan. The Estimated Return is the expected profit to be made after deducting the Effectiveloss and Service Charge from the Estimated EffectiveYeild. It tells us that the service charge has little percentage and seems to be constant,as the Borrower rate an lenderyeild are strongly correlated. Generally it shows that the Prosperloan company runs at profit as the Current Delinquencies shows to be in just a few account majorly in the range 0-5000, and just rare cases above this. This shows proper management of loan. The major loan term is 3year followed by 5years., Which explains why majority of the accounts is in the Current Loan Status
> its interesting to see that Current Delinquencies have loan Status, so that means that the Current Deliquency is Number of accounts delinquent at the time the credit profile was pulled not necessarily the Status of the Delinquency.
The most profitable state from the data is in Califonia (CA), it has the highest amount of Completed and Current Loan status, and very little Default. Also New York ad Texas. This information is good as more work can be targetted towards these states and VT(Vermont), AK(Alaska), WY(Wyoming) should have less focus.
> Since we were given Prosper ratings and there various ponts, we didn't know the order and what influences the ratings. From the above analysis its found that The Prosper Rating assigned at the time the listing was created: 0 - N/A, 1 - HR, 2 - E, 3 - D, 4 - C, 5 - B, 6 - A, 7 - AA. Where the highest LenderYeild which affects the ratings starts from HR to AA and HR is the highest rating. Californa state is shown to be the most profitable as it hold a huge amount of Current Loan Satus ad Completed Status with low Default. More Effort should be concentrate on the First 5 cities to bring more profitable loan Traction. Lenderyeild, BorrowerRate and BorrowerAPR are three variables that go hand in hand and affects the Prosperrating. Propser Score was found to be null, the whole column. Current delinquencies and Delinquent amount showed that most Current delinquencies had an amount of $(1-5000) an a few current Delinquencies that had high figures. The ProsperLoan Company seem to have a very good management and shows to be making its profits, even though the service charges seems to have a small percentage, it has more Completed and Current loan status. There is largely an estimate return of profit for all loans and very few losses.
 There was no trend with the CurrentDelinquencies to show why Customers fall in that category. 

## Key Insights for Presentation

   Every borrower in this data set paid for the loan given as the least percentage for BorrowerAPR is 0.04%, is this amount enough to make profit? Comparing Borrower APR to the Estimated Return, there i always a record of return, no matter how small it seems to be. Which shows that 0.04% should be the least Annual Rate to expect returns or profits. Even the low rates has a low amount of Estimated Effective Yield and low Estimated loss, most importantly Estimated Return and so is still suitable for the data set.
   The BorrowerRate and the BorrowerAPR seems strong correlation and they look similar, and it ought to be since the later is the annual percentage rate. The both seems to be strongly hinged on the Lender Yeild.Lender yield is equal to the interest rate on the loan less the servicing fee. The Service Fees seems little. We would look more into this the Bivariate Exploration.  
   The Amount Delinquent behaves more like the Current Delinquencies, Its tells us that most of the Delinquencies are Current, with a Few spread out on the other Loan statuses.
 We can see that the highest number of Current Delinquencies in the loan data is between 0-2 with a drastic fall after 1 to 2 point 9 which seem so rare.
 The terms here are spaced, because we have them in months i.e 12months (1year), 36 months (3years) and 60 months where 3years is the most common term in the Loan Data set. The AmountDeliquecies looks like the Currentdeliquencies, they seem to correlate. as the least value of amount seems to be the most common amount and the large amounts are very rare. This shows good management of Delinquencies from the ProsperLoan company.